~ Recap  03 - 15 - 2022 ~

Suggestions/Ideas for the next meeting:
(Tom) Let's see Wikidata and follow its links (ed: radium, inventor, named after...). (I don't know if we could) It would be interesting to use also "Radioactivity" as an item since it is 1) a notable work by Marie Curie 2) the object of the discovery.

Conceptual Map - instructions:
  created by => draw
  produced by => created by an editor, a publisher, an istitution 
  made in => year
  contained in=> issue contained in a magazine
  material => in the sense of "made of"
  located in => place
  
  
Properties we used in the conceptual map: 
  • marie curie --- notable work ---> traité de radioactivité
  • marie curie/pierre curie --- award received ---> nobel prizes
  • another interesting property is RATIONALE, i.e. prize motivation
  
  
Things that are still not clear:
  1. What's the difference between: realized by | written by | created by   ((tom)é arbitrario. Ci serve, in teoria, solo per la conceptual map, quindi si ricollega alla mia propost del punto successivo. Infatti, stavo controllando alcuni vocabolri di metadati, in particolare su Schema.org e per i Creative works ci sono solo "author" o "creator" che esprimono la stessa cosa. Non esistono "writer" o altri tipi (https://schema.org/Book). Almeno, questo vale per scehma.org, poi per il resto non lo so, probabilmente ne esisterannno, ma quello sarà un problema che affronteremo con il metadata alignment. Per quanto riguarda la conceptual map è completamente arbitrario, quindi possiamo mettere ciò che vogliamo. È chiro che mantenere un ordine e una coerenza di termini è meglio e ci rende la vita più semplice, ma è tutta questione di accordarci tra di noi)
  2. Can "engraved by" used in the conceptual map or do we use diirectly "created by" as a relation/predicate?
      (proposta (tom): usiamo quello che ci pare, o meglio, quello specificato nelle descrizioni già attuate dalle istituzioni, tanto poi il comune denominatore lo dobbiamo trovare quando cerchiamo i termini speecifici per le relazinoi in RDF)
  3. The discovery of radium: can we read it as an item?
  4. About: object or event oriented? If we are following an object oriented approach, can we still use an event as an item?
  5. CDOC-CRM is an event oriented onthology: can we still use it?
  6. Can we use as items some geographical spaces? Intended as cities, States etc. not as monuments, tombs)
          ((tom) nelle guidelines c'è scritto un elenco di items, non penso che un luogo possa essere interpretato come item dato che non può essere detenuto da nessuna istituzione o essere proprietà di qualcunuo. Le guidelines riportano "the description of each item must include information about different kinds of entities: people, places, dates, and subjects/concepts." nel sendo che, alla descrizione dell'Item possiamo collegare un luogo geografico, che, di conseguenza può essere interpretato come entità e descritto ulteriormente, ma non come item. Gli items, da guidelines, sono "objects: archival documents/file/series/founds; bibliographic records; artefacts (photographs, maps, sculptures, buildings, manuscripts, sigils, etc.)")
  
  7. Object oriented vs Event oriented approach: the Gioconda case study. 
   Object => (the portrait depicting) Gioconda; Creator => Leonardo Da Vinci; subject => Mona Lisa.
   First approach (object centric): the object itself is my hub i.e. my "centre". Therefore I can connect my hub to the creator, Leonardo, and the subject of the portrait, Monna Lisa. 
   Second approach: I create an event. In this case my event is "The creation of the portrait" itself, by Leonardo. It's my event that is able to connect Leonardo da Vinci (the creator) to the object. While in the object centric Leonardo and the portrait are connected directly, here the relation is indirect. In the same way, "Gioconda" (the portrait) is connected to Monna Lisa (the subject) through a central hub, that is the event itself. The event oriented approach is thuoght to enlight the the process of interrelation between the items.

   

Additional informations:
  1. Pierre and Marie received two Noble Prize: one for the discovery of the radioactivity and one for the Radium and Polonium, this last element named after the country of Marie’s birth. 
  2. 1903: Nobel Prize in Physics with Pierre Curie (husband) and with the physicist Henri Becquerel for their pioneering work developing the theory of "radioactivity" a term she coined. | 1911: Nobel Prize in Chemistry for her discovery of the elements polonium and radium, using techniques she invented for isolating radioactive isotopes.
  3. The whole name of Marie is: Marie Salomea Skłodowska Curie
  4. The chromolitographs of Vanity Fair Magazine were used to be affixed to the page through a tape.
  
  
  
~ Recap 03 - 19 - 2022 ~
  See for more: officehours

    1.About: Treatise on Radioactivity
      - According to Worldcat, vol 1 + vol 2 (sponsored by University of Ottawa on Internet Archive) represent a single Internet Resource
      https://www.worldcat.org/title/trait-de-radioactivit/oclc/1085979352 )
      - There are three main "disposition" of the items (physical and online object). ->See the map in draw.io
      - In the original version of the treatise, the author is written on the material version as "Madame Pierre Curie", it is obvious that the author is Madame Curie.
   
   2. About: Noble Prize
      - We finally found the two object (diploma) recorded!  https://musee.curie.fr/decouvrir/la-famille-curie/les-prix-nobel-des-curie-et-des-joliot-curie
      - We will set the diploma as entity? Since we have two Noble Prize. (<--it has been solved, waiting for the next collective meeting to talk)
    
~ Recap 03 - 20 - 2022 ~
     1. About: storytelling.
        - For sure, the 2nd Noble Prize is the center of our historical part. MC is the first woman who owned two Nobel Prize in two different fields.
        - We can see the storytelling divided in four main parts: 
        1) Witness/Commemoration (Items: Notebook, Statue, Pantheon)
        2) Science and Research (Items: Nobels, Radio, Radioactivity)
        3) Mass culture: (Items: Vanity Fair, Stamp, Radithor)
        
~ Recap 03 - 22 - 2022 ~
     1. About: museums and institution.
        - We found some alternatives to two items on which we're uncertain about.
     2. About: Predicates used.
        - We added the property "employer" for Pierre and Marie, teaching at Sorbonne University.
     3. About: E/R Map.
        - We discussed about the dispostition of every single element of the map, comparing a tree structure with one more "open-structured" and not usual.

